CS210 Midterm Study Guide 1. If we argue that privacy is important for trust and friendship, we are arguing it has what kind of value? 2. “Illinois CS students should use their expertise to make the world a better place.” What kind of statement is this? 3. “The Earth is clearly flat, because there is no evidence that the Earth is round.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 4. Which of the following security objectives is concerned with trust and verification of data? 5. What do we call public information about a person (e.g. their being in a public place?) 6. “Illinois CS students have created software that makes people safer and happier.” What kind of statement is this? 7. What kinds of arguments are considered strong? 8. “When I weigh the social utility of preserving individual privacy against the safety risks, maintaining privacy leads to greater overall happiness. Preserving privacy is therefore morally right.” What kind of ethical reasoning is being employed in this argument? 9. After a study indicated this feature might undermine a reader’s comprehension of scientific articles, Popular Science disabled this feature on their website. 10. What do we call data used to uniquely identify a person (e.g. their SSN or fingerprint?) 11. What do we call the philosophical stance that there are multiple plausible answers to ethical dilemmas, as long as rational criteria are satisfied, but some answers are more right than others? 12. Which of the following is an example of cybercrime? 13. When we say a person is a “Aristotelian”, to what ethical theory do they subscribe? 14. Two researchers discuss whether or not it is ethical to collect the names of subjects in a psychological study. What are they wrestling with? 15. If we argue that privacy is a “means to an end,” we are arguing it has what kind of value? 16. Two employees for a cell phone company discuss whether or not it is ethical to share user data with a marketing firm. What are they wrestling with? 17. What do we call the situation that arises when a technology creates non-obvious ethical concerns? 18. Which of these philosophers is associated with deontological ethics? 19. What do we call our tendency to believe that people ultimately deserve the things that happen to them? 20. “I aspire to be an honest, just, and disciplined person. If I cannot afford to pay for copyrighted material, I will cultivate these virtues by refusing to pirate it.” What ethical theory is being employed in this argument? 21. “Cyberbullying and trolling are unethical. While they might at first seem like a fun diversion, the abusers are using humans as a means to an end. Ultimately, humiliating people for entertainment violates moral rules.” What ethical theory is being employed in this argument? 22. Which of these terms means “having a right to privacy”? 23. “Thomas Jefferson was a slave owner. His ideas about democracy are flawed.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 24. Which definition of privacy means ”freedom from interference in one’s choices”? 25. “Though a sentient machine might seem like something out of science fiction, I would strive to be just and tolerant in my interactions with one. Perhaps a sufficiently advanced AI could pursue eudaemonia.” What kind of ethical reasoning is being employed in this argument? 26. When does a valid argument contains all true premises? 27. When we question whether personal information should be gathered or divulged within a given context, what are we talking about? 28. What is the definition of a logical argument? 29. In which of the following practices is implicit personal data discovered? 1 30. “You think this house is worth a million dollars. The appraiser thinks it’s worth three million dollars. The true value is probably around two million dollars.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 31. The practices of merging and matching personal information potentially violate which of the following? 32. “A neuron is not sentient, so a brain cannot be sentient.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 33. Which of the following laws protects private medical records in the US? 34. What do we call confidential information about a person (e.g. their medical records?) 35. Which of these terms means “having privacy”? 36. “Regardless of how intelligent a computer is, people should ultimately use it as they would any other machine: to promote human happiness.” What kind of ethical reasoning is being employed in this argument? 37. When we say a person is a “dentologist”, to what ethical theory do they subscribe? 38. What is another name for a “white hat” or “pentester”? 39. “Illinois CS students should strive to protect sensitive user data.” What kind of statement is this? 40. Which of the following is true of risk analysis in cyber security? 41. “Distributing copyrighted works is a form of stealing. Stealing violates moral laws which we believe to be universal, so we should not distribute copyrighted material.” What ethical theory is being employed in this argument? 42. “These doughnuts are healthy. They’re made using only organically-grown locally-sourced ingredients.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 43. What kinds of arguments are considered weak? 44. “We both agree that slavery is wrong and people should be free. Why are you asking me to pay you for your work? Shouldn’t you be free?” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 45. Which of the following laws concerns the ”right to be forgotten”? 46. “If we let him eat just one doughnut, we’ll have to let him eat the whole box.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 47. “People born in July are bad drivers. They are responsible 1 in 12 traffic accidents!” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 48. Which of the following is an example of cyber-related crime? 49. “The lion preys upon the slowest gazelle. If I get rich by taking advantage of the foolish, it’s not immoral. It’s evolution.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 50. Which of the following security objectives is concerned with preventing unauthorized access? 51. What do we call the descriptive proposition that cultures have different beliefs about what is moral and immoral? 52. When does a sound argument contains all true premises? 53. What do we call the situation where technological development outpaces a society’s development of relevant norms? 54. When we question whether personal information should be transferred from its original context, what are we talking about? 55. “Why should anyone listen to you? You’re a liar and a thief.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 56. “Distributing copyrighted material robs the creator of wealth, which discourages artists from creating more works for the public to enjoy. Distributing copyrighted works is therefore unethical.” What ethical theory is being employed in this argument? 57. “Either my magic coffee beans can cure diseases, or all the people who bought them are mindless fools.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 58. “The Earth is flat. The surface is obviously smooth and level.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 59. Which definition of privacy means ”freedom from physical intrusion”? 60. Which definition of privacy protects against unwarranted search and seizure? 61. Which definition of privacy protects freedom of conscience? 2 62. When is an argument that is valid also inductive? 63. Under Brey’s comprehensive and disclosive method, which perspective of applied ethics does he advocate we use? 64. What do we call our tendency to judge the strength of an argument by our belief in the conclusion? 65. A hacker floods an online poll to skew the results in favor of a political issue. Which of the following is she engaged in? 66. “I refuse to take part in cyberbullying or trolling, because I strive to be a kind and honorable person.” What ethical theory is being employed in this argument? 67. A hacker has permission to hack systems for a company. She finds a vulnerability in the network and reports it to the company. Which of the following is she engaged in? 68. Which of the following is the name of the Nazi forced euthanasia program which lead to the development of technologies eventually used in the Holocaust? 69. Which of the following is the name given to a telegram decoded in Bletchley Park that contained information about the Holocaust? 70. “How can you doubt the existence of ghosts? Millions of people believe in them!” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 71. When Gotterbarn argued that we don’t need “automobile ethics” but we do need “auto mechanic ethics”, which perspective was he advocating for applied ethics? 72. A hacker working for a national government shuts down the power grid of an enemy nation. Which of the following is she engaged in? 73. Which of the following cybersecurity terms refers to the things we want to protect? 74. Which of the following is an example of cybercrime? 75. “Illinois CS students have a flawless history of protecting sensitive user data.” What kind of statement is this? 76. “As a human, your life is sacred, so each cell in a person’s body is also sacred.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 77. Which branch of applied ethics focuses on what is the case rather than what ought to be the case? 78. What do we call our tendency to attribute our own behavior to our situation while attributing others’ behavior to their personalties? 79. What do we call the philosophical stance that we cannot morally evaluate the ethical behavior of a person from another culutre? 80. Which of the following is an example of cyber-related crime? 81. Which of these philosophers is associated with virtue-based ethics? 82. Which of the following is the name of an early information technology that used punch cards to store and tabulate data? 83. The practice of dataveillance potentially violates which of the following? 84. When we say a person is a “utilitarian”, to what ethical theory do they subscribe? 85. What do we call our tendency to believe that, after an event occurred, the outcome was obvious all along? 86. “All doughnuts are chocolate-covered. If you put anything else on one, it’s just not a doughnut anymore.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 87. What do we call our tendency to explain other people’s behavior by their internal attributes while ignoring external factors? 88. “Cyberbullying and trolling are unethical. While they might at first seem like a fun diversion, this dubious social utility is far outweighed by the emotional toll these actions take on their victims.” What ethical theory is being employed in this argument? 89. What do we call a valid argument with at least one untrue premise? 90. You are in a classroom by yourself. A classmate enters the room. Which kind of privacy have you lost? 91. What do we call an invalid argument whose premises have no bearing on the truth of their conclusion? 92. Which of the following is the name of a technology company directly involved in the Holocaust? 3 93. As you are typing your PIN into an ATM, someone behind you watches you enter the numbers. Which kind of privacy have they violated? 94. “I shouldn’t have to wear a seatbelt. I survived WWII.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 95. What do we call our tendency to search for, interpret, and recall information that confirms our beliefs while ignoring the rest? 96. What do we call an invalid argument whose premises lead us to believe that the conclusion is likely true? 97. What do we call the situation where technological development causes confusion between previously distinct ideas? 98. What do we call the philosophical stance that morality is a private individual choice? Based on Gert’s definition of morality, this is an oxymoron. 99. “If we believe there’s a ghost in our house, we’ll just stay up all night worrying about it.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 100. Data that must be protected because it is owned by a private party. 101. Which of the following security objectives is concerned with preventing unauthorized modification of data? 102. “You shouldn’t wear your seatbelt. Seatbelts sometimes trap people in their cars.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 103. Which of the following security objectives is concerned with ensuring timely and reliable responses from services? 104. Which of the following is not required of a moral system? 105. Which of the following is an example of a moral agent? 106. “Privacy is a basic human right enshrined in law. Regardless of risk, the majority cannot strip a person of their constitutionally protected freedoms. We are therefore morally obligated to preserve privacy.” What kind of ethical reasoning is being employed in this argument? 107. A hacker turns all of the traffic lights green in a major city, intending to cause widespread automobile accidents. Which of the following is she engaged in? 108. “You should buy my magic coffee beans. After eating three of them, my friend lost 10 pounds.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 109. “Copyright is an agreement to preserve and protect the intellectual property rights of the creator. It is unethical to break this kind of formal and explicit social agreement to violate a person’s rights.” What ethical theory is being employed in this argument? 110. When does a sound argument contain one or more false premises? 111. Which of the following is not a category of cybersecurity? 112. “Scientists can’t detect ghosts, because spirits are invisible to nonbelievers.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 113. What do we call the philosophical stance that there is one and only one correct answer to every ethical dilemma? 114. What do we call a valid argument with all true premises? 115. Which of these philosophers is associated with contract-based ethics? 116. “Doughnuts obviously taste like rubber, because they’re shaped like tires.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 117. Data that must be protected because it is intimate or confidential. 118. “The Earth is flat, because the Bible says that the Earth is flat.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 119. “You’re only telling me to wear my seatbelt because you want to control me.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 120. Which definition of privacy is concerned with the way personal data is gathered? 121. In which of the following practices is data not necessarily exchanged? 122. If we argue that privacy is “an end in and of itself”, we are arguing it has what kind of value? 123. Which of the following technology companies conducted a controversial psychological study intended to manipulate the emotions of their users? 4 124. Which of these philosophers is associated with utilitarianism? 125. “You don’t believe I saw a ghost. Are you calling me a liar?” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 126. “You doubt my magic coffee beans cure diseases, because you don’t understand how they could possibly work. Well, you don’t understand how vaccines work, either.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 127. “I’m your boss. If you don’t agree with me, I’ll fire you.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 128. Which of the following is the name of the conference in which the Nazi “Final Solution” was officially established? 129. “A sentient artificial intelligence would be a moral agent. Because of this, it would have intrinsic moral worth. We would therefore have the same moral obligations to a self-aware AI that we have to any other person.” What kind of ethical reasoning is being employed in this argument? 130. Which definition of privacy means ”control over the flow of one’s personal information”? 131. “Stripping someone else of their privacy to protect myself is using that person as a means to an end. We have a moral duty to protect and respect the privacy of others, so violating a person’s privacy is unethical.” What kind of ethical reasoning is being employed in this argument? 132. “This argument is invalid, because you made an ad hominem attack.” What kind of logical fallacy is this? 133. What do we call our tendency to accept positive feedback as deserved while rejecting negative feedback as invalid? 5
